http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/43471/how-to-configure-the-linux-grub2-boot-menu-the-easy-way/

How-To Geek

    Articles l l Subscribe l l Search 

How to Configure the Linux Grub2 Boot Menu the Easy Way

We, like many Linux geeks, have had some trouble making the transition to Grub2, or for some of us, learning how to configure it from scratch. Fortunately, a new graphical tool has made this process easy and straightforward!

Photo by e_monk.
Data is transforming the way companies work

See how your data strategy compares to the competition.
Sponsored by Microsoft
Installing Grub Customizer

The tool in question is called Grub Customizer, created by Daniel Richter. He’s provided a PPA to make installing the tool quick and easy.

Open a terminal window (Ctrl+Alt+T or Applications > Accessories > Terminal) and type in the following commands.

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:danielrichter2007/grub-customizer
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install grub-customizer

Grub Customizer will now show up in the Applications > System Tools menu.

sshot-1

Or you can open it from the command line.

    gksudo grub-customizer

Hide Boot Menu Options

Over time, your boot menu can get cluttered with old versions of the Linux kernel. In a previous article, we showed you how to remove these manually; Grub Customizer makes this process much easier.

When Grub Customizer starts up, you’ll see a list of all the items that show up in the boot menu.

Grub Customizer_002

To hide entries that you don’t want to see anymore, simply uncheck the checkbox next to them.

Grub Customizer_004

Click the Save button at the top-left to make your changes permanent.

sshot-3

You can uncheck entire sections if you don’t want Grub2 to probe for new operating systems, or give you the option to test your computer’s memory.

Note that, unlike the manual method, this process does not actually remove the kernels from your computer, it just hides them from the boot menu.
Customize Grub Behavior

Grub Customizer can do much more than hide boot menu entries! Opening up the Preferences window lets you customize almost every aspect of Grub.

For example, you can set the default boot menu entry to a certain position, or a specific item.

sshot-2

If you’re bored by the default white-text-on-black-background look of Grub2, you can add a background image and customize text colors.

Grub Customizer - settings_006

And, for Grub2 experts, you can set advanced settings much more easily than by editing the configuration files manually.

Grub Customizer - settings_007

Grub Customizer is a great addition to any Linux installation that uses Grub2!

Thanks to How-To Geek commenter Hugues for recommending this program!

See this Ubuntu Forums post for more detailed information on Grub Customizer.
JOIN THE DISCUSSION

Trevor is our resident Linux geek, but always keeps his eyes open for neat Windows tricks too.

    Published 02/14/11

SHOW ARCHIVED READER COMMENTS (12)
DID YOU KNOW?

The current U.S. flag was designed by a 17 year old high school student as part of a class project; he received a B- on the design, which was later changed to an A when the design was selected as the official new flag.
BEST OF HOW-TO GEEK
How to Search Google Like a Pro: 11 Tricks You Have to Know
What’s the Best Antivirus for Windows 10? (Is Windows Defender Good Enough?)
How to Back Up Your Text Messages to Your Gmail Account
How to Use All of Windows 10’s Backup and Recovery Tools
How to Run Any Program as a Background Service in Windows
How to Find and Remove Duplicate Files on Windows
How to Enable Wi-Fi Calling on an Android Phone
7 Ways To Free Up Hard Disk Space On Windows
How to Use Your Macbook’s Trackpad Gestures
More Articles You Might Like
ABOUT

    About Us
    Contact Us
    Discussion Forum
    Advertising
    Privacy Policy

GET ARTICLES BY EMAIL

Enter your email address to get our daily newsletter.

FOLLOW US

    Twitter
    Facebook

    Google+
    RSS Feed

Disclaimer: Most of the pages on the internet include affiliate links, including some on this site.

Copyright © 2006-2016 How-To Geek, LLC  All Rights Reserved
